# Publishing a GitHub Page

You don't need to know how to code or know HTML to setup a GitHub Page.  We're going to build a personal webpage which will live at USERNAME.github.io.

There is a live example of the template here: [https://biodata-club.github.io/jekyll-academic/](https://biodata-club.github.io/jekyll-academic/).

## GitHub account

Skip this step if you have already setup your GitHub account

- In a web browser, navigate to GitHub.com
- Fill Out Username, Email Address and Password
- Click Sign up for GitHub button
- Click the Finish Sign Up button

Make a note of the username that you create, as you will be required to use it in setting up your GitHub pages repository.

## Verify email address

- Navigate to the email account you used to sign up
- Verify your email address by clicking on the “Verify email address” button in the email you received from GitHub

## GitHub repository orientation

## Fork the repository from GitHub

Forking on GitHub means you're copying a repository's files into your own repository of the same name.  You'll use the copy as the building block for your new website.

- Log into your GitHub account
- Go to the BioData Club's jekyll-academic repository: [https://github.com/BioData-Club/jekyll-academic](https://github.com/BioData-Club/jekyll-academic)
- Click the **Fork** button on the top right of the webpage

## Rename the repository

- Click the **Settings** tab on your repository
- Change your repository name to **USERNAME.github.io** (where **USERNAME** is your exact GitHub account name)

## First edits to your webpage

Let's edit the information in the `_config.yml` YAML file.

- Click on the `_config.yml` YAML file
- Click on the pencil button on the top right of the preview window

This is a configuration file where important settings for your site are stored.  You'll find the `_config.yml` YAML file in the root (parent) level of your repository.

Start by updating the:

- **title** for a new website title
- **name** for your name to appear on the website
- **bio** for a short sentence version of your bio that appears below your picture
- **email** for your email to appear on the front page
- Social media fields you want (such as **twitter** or **linkedin**) for the icons to those sites to become links to your social media profiles

**Don't modify anything below** `#DO NOT EDIT BEYOND THIS POINT`.

The text to the right of any `#` symbol in a YAML file is ignored.

## Commit changes

After you have edited your `_config.yml` YAML file, click the green **Commit changes** button at the bottom of the page, which will save the file changes in your repository.  **Commit** is GitHub's way of saying **Save**.

## Look at your new website

Check out your new GitHub Page at https://USERNAME.github.io (where USERNAME is your GitHub username).  Next we will [add a full bio](../your-bio)!
